---
layout: post
title: Merb deploy step by step
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

Deploying the second Merb app on our server in the same week, I've made the history of various comand lines to enter on each side to have a fresh merb-app install.

It'd also help to refactor the whole process thanks to this global view.

h2. App server

h3. Monit Configuration

<pre>
<code>
alx@MacBook ~$ ssh deploy@slice.legodata.com
deploy@legodata:/etc/nginx$ cd /etc/monit.d/                     
deploy@legodata:/etc/monit.d$ sudo cp slice2.monit slice3.monit
deploy@legodata:/etc/monit.d$ sudo nano slice3.monit
</code>
</pre>

<pre>
<code>
check process slice3_app_master
  with pidfile /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/pids/production-merb.main.pid
  start program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 start_master /home/deploy/legodata -c2 -n4004"
  stop program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 stop_master /home/deploy/legodata"
  #if totalmem is greater than 80.0 MB for 2 cycles then restart       # eating up memory?
  group slice3.legodata.com

# Worker configuration (one for each worker port required)
check process slice3_app_4004
  with pidfile /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/pids/production-merb.4004.pid
  start program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 register_worker /home/deploy/legodata 4004"
  stop program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 restart_worker /home/deploy/legodata 4004"
  if totalmem is greater than 80.0 MB for 2 cycles then restart       # eating up memory?
  group slice3.legodata.com

check process slice3_app_4005
  with pidfile /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/pids/production-merb.4005.pid
  start program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 register_worker /home/deploy/legodata 4005"
  stop program = "/home/deploy/bin/monit_merb_mpc slice3 restart_worker /home/deploy/legodata 4005"
  if totalmem is greater than 80.0 MB for 2 cycles then restart       # eating up memory?
  group slice3.legodata.com
</code>
</pre>

<pre>
<code>
deploy@legodata:/etc/monit.d$ sudo /etc/init.d/monit restart
deploy@legodata:/etc/monit.d$ sudo /usr/sbin/monit -c /etc/monit/monitrc status
</code>
</pre>

More info:
* "Monit":http://mmonit.com/monit/
* "monit_merb_mpc":http://gist.github.com/46061

h3. Nginx Configuration

<pre>
<code>
deploy@legodata:~$ cd /etc/nginx/
deploy@legodata:/etc/nginx$ sudo cp sites-available/slices/slice3.legodata.com sites-enabled/
deploy@legodata:/etc/nginx$ sudo nano sites-enabled/slice3.legodata.com
</code>
</pre>

<pre>
<code>
upstream slice3 {
  server 127.0.0.1:4004;
  server 127.0.0.1:4005;
}

server {
  listen 80;
  server_name slice3.legodata.com;

  root /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/current/public;

  access_log /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/log/access.log;
  error_log /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/log/error.log;

  location / {

    proxy_set_header  X-Real-IP       $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header  X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header  Host            $http_host;

    proxy_redirect false;
    proxy_max_temp_file_size 0;

    if (-f $request_filename) {
      break;
    }

    if (-f $request_filename.html) {
      rewrite (.*) $1.html break;
    }

    if (!-f $request_filename) {
      proxy_pass http://slice3;
      break;
    }

  } # location

} # server
</code>
</pre>

<pre>
<code>
deploy@legodata:/etc/nginx$ sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart
</code>
</pre>

More info:
* "Nginx":http://wiki.codemongers.com/

h3. Manual launch for debug

<pre>
<code>
deploy@legodata:/etc/monit.d$ sudo /usr/local/bin/merb --name slice3_production -d -u deploy -G www-data -a mongrel -L /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/current/log/production.log -e production -m /home/deploy/legodata/slice3/current -c 2 -P '/home/deploy/legodata/slice3/shared/pids/production-merb.%s.pid' -p 4004 -N
</code>
</pre>

More info:
* "merb-core/config.rb":http://github.com/wycats/merb/blob/master/merb-core/lib/merb-core/config.rb#L181-181


h3. Git repository creation

<pre>
<code>
alx@MacBook ~$ ssh git@slice.legodata.com
git@legodata:~$ mkdir cbon.git
git@legodata:~$ cd cbon.git
git@legodata:~/cbon.git$ git init
Initialized empty Git repository in /home/git/cbon.git/.git/
</code>
</pre>

h2. Dev station

h3. Git workspace creation

<pre>
<code>
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ mkdir cbon
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ cd cbon/
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ git init
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ touch README
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ git add .
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ git commit -a -m "first commit"
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ git remote add origin git@git.legodata.com:cbon.git
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ git push origin master
</code>
</pre>

h3. Merb app creation

<pre>
<code>
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ merb-gen app .
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ capify .
</code>
</pre>

h3. Deploy on app server

<pre>
<code>
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ more config/deploy.rb 

set :application_name, 'cbon'
set :application, "slice3.legodata.com"
set :deploy_to, "/home/deploy/legodata/slice3"

alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ cap deploy:setup
alx@MacBook ~/Sites/cbon[master]$ cap deploy:cold
</code>
</pre>
